<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kghostview;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>
<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kghostview; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Pamela</firstname>
<surname>Roberts</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>pam.roberts@btinternet.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>



<copyright>
<year>2001</year>
<holder>Pamela Roberts</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2001-07-07</date>
<releaseinfo>0.12.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>This document describes &kghostview; version 0.12.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>linux</keyword>
<keyword>postscript</keyword>
<keyword>ghostivew</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kghostview; displays and prints &PostScript; (<literal
role="extension">.ps</literal>, <literal
role="extension">.eps</literal>) and Portable Document Format (<literal
role="extension">.pdf</literal>) files. It is a front end to Tim
Theisen's <application>Ghostview</application> program which is used to
view documents prepared in <trademark>Adobe</trademark>'s &PostScript;
page description language. &PostScript; is the major page description
language for printing on &UNIX; systems and this application is used to
preview material intended for printing or for reading documents online.
</para>

<para>
You can use &kghostview; with all recent versions of
<application>Ghostscript</application>. Newer versions offer much
improved performance which you can take advantage of with &kghostview;.
</para>

<para>
If a document does not conform to the <trademark
class="registered">Adobe</trademark> document structuring convention the
functionality of the viewer is limited. For example, if there is no
table of contents, skipping around the document and marking pages is not
possible.  
</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="fundamentals">
<title>Fundamentals</title>

<para>
This section describes what you see in the main &kghostview; window, the
actions of the Toolbar buttons and how to use the Page List.
</para>

<para>
You can open multiple instances of &kghostview; to view multiple
documents. The title bar at the top of a window shows you the name of
the document in that window.
</para>

<para>
Note that the Toolbar and the text fields that help you to navigate
through a document can be hidden with the <link
linkend="settings">Settings</link> menu options to give more space on
the screen for the content area.
</para>

<para>
The main area displays a page of the current document. If the page is
too large to fit inside the window, scroll bars are automatically added
to the sides of the display, although these can be disabled with the
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu.
</para>

<para>
You can also scroll up and down in a page with the <keysym>Up
Arrow</keysym> and <keysym>Down Arrow</keysym> keys.</para> <para>The
<guibutton>Next Page</guibutton> and <guibutton>Previous
Page</guibutton> Toolbar buttons do what they say, or you can go
immediately to any page with a &LMB; click on the Page List.
</para>

<para>
If the page is too tall be displayed completely in the window the
<guibutton>Read up document</guibutton> and <guibutton>Read down
document</guibutton> buttons can be used to scroll up or down through
the entire document.
</para>

<para>
If selected in the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu a Page List will be
displayed at the left side of the window. This list has two columns: the
first may contain a flag indicating that the page has been marked, the
second contains the page numbers. You can use this page list to navigate
through the document or to mark pages for printing.
</para>

<para>
You can toggle the <quote>page marked</quote>; flag for the currently
displayed page with <keycombo
action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>M</keycap></keycombo> or for
any page by &MMB; clicking on it in the Page List. You can also clear or
change your page marks using the drop-down menu that is activated by
&RMB; clicking anywhere in the Page List area or by selecting the <link
linkend="pagemarks">PageMarks</link> menu.
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="primary-menu-items">
<title>The Menubar</title>

<sect1 id="menufile">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>O</accel>pen...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Open</action> a file. If a file
is currently being displayed it will be closed.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open <accel>R</accel>ecent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Open</action> a file selected from a drop-down list of
recently opened files. If a file is currently being displayed it will be
closed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save <accel>A</accel>s...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Save</action> the currently open file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>P</accel>rint...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Print</action> the currently displayed document.
The Print dialog box will let you choose to print all or selected
(marked) pages.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Document <accel>I</accel>nfo...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Display</action> some basic information about
the document.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>Q</accel>uit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Close</action> down &kghostview;.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="view">
<title>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>R</accel>edisplay</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Re-render</action> the current document page.</para>
</listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>F</accel>it To Page Width</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Scale</action> the display so a page width fits
exactly across the main display area.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>O</accel>rientation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Change the orientation</action> of the
displayed page. You can choose between <guimenuitem>Auto</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Portrait</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>Landscape</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>Upside
Down</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Seascape</guimenuitem> which is like
<guimenuitem>Landscape</guimenuitem> but the other way up.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paper <accel>S</accel>ize</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Lets you view the document as if it
were printed on different <action>paper sizes</action> without changing the
scale. You should normally choose <guimenuitem>Auto</guimenuitem>.</para>
</listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
&Shift;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom <accel>I</accel>n</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Increase the magnification</action> of the
document view.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom <accel>O</accel>ut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Decrease the magnification</action> of the
document view.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>Page Up</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>P</accel>revious Page</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>View the <action>previous page</action> of the
document.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>Page Down</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>N</accel>ext Page</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>View the <action>next page</action> of the
document.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Home</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to start</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Go to the start</action> of the
document.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>End</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Go to end</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Go to the end</action> of the
document.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap>
<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Read up document</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Scroll backwards</action> through the
document.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>V</accel>iew</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>G</accel>o to Page...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Choose</action> the document page to display.</para>
</listitem> </varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="pagemarks">
<title>The <guimenu>PageMarks</guimenu> Menu</title>

<note>
<para>
You can also get this menu by &RMB; clicking anywhere in the Page List
area.
</para>
</note>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>M</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark Current Page</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the page marked
flag</action> for the current page.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark <accel>A</accel>ll Pages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Set the page marked
flag</action> for all pages of the document.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark <accel>E</accel>ven Pages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Set the page marked
flag</action> for all even numbered pages in the document. Used in
conjunction with <guimenuitem>Mark Odd Pages</guimenuitem> or
<guimenuitem>Toggle Page Marks</guimenuitem> this provides a convenient way of
double-sided printing a document on a single sided printer</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mark <accel>O</accel>dd Pages</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Set the page marked
flag</action> for all odd numbered pages in the document.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>T</accel>oggle Page Marks</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the page marked
flags</action> for all pages in the document.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>P</accel>ageMarks</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>R</accel>emove Page Marks</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Clear the page marked
flags</action> for all pages in the document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show <accel>T</accel>oolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the Toolbar display</action> on
and off.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show St<accel>a</accel>tusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the Statusbar display</action> on
and off.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show <accel>S</accel>crollbars</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the horizontal and vertical scrollbars</action>
on and off.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>W</accel>atch File</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If this is selected the display will
<action>automatically update</action> if the document file
changes.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show <accel>P</accel>age List</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle the Page List</action>
on and off.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Page Names</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>If this is selected the <action>name (if any) of the
current page is displayed in the Status Bar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>S</accel>ettings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>C</accel>onfigure &kghostview;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Brings up the &kghostview;
<link linkend="config-dialog"><action>configuration dialog</action>
box</link>.</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycap>F1</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>C</accel>ontents</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>View this manual</action>.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>R</accel>eport Bug...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Use this to <action>report any bugs you may
find with &kghostview;</action>.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>A</accel>bout &kghostview;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Use this to <action>see the version number of
&kghostview; as well as brief information about the program
authors, copyright and license agreement</action>.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>H</accel>elp</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>About <accel>K</accel>DE</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>To view <action>brief information about the K Desktop
Environment</action>.</para> </listitem> </varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="config-dialog">
<title>Configuration</title>

<para>
The configuration dialog box is accessed with the
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure
&kghostview;...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> option. It has two pages;
<guilabel>General settings</guilabel> and <guilabel>Ghostscript
configuration</guilabel>
</para>

<sect1 id="general-settings">
<title>General settings</title>

<para>
You can select <guilabel>Antialiasing</guilabel> to get smoothly
rendered text, but note that antialiasing is memory intensive and slower
than straightforward rendering of fonts. Early versions of
<application>Ghostscript</application> could not perform antialiasing.
</para>

<para>
Select <guilabel>Platform fonts</guilabel> if you wish to use your
native system fonts rather than those that come with
<application>Ghostscript</application>.
</para>

<para>
Turn <guilabel>Messages</guilabel> on if you want to be informed of any
output or error messages generated by the
<application>Ghostscript</application> interpreter.
</para>

<para>
You can choose whether &kghostview; uses a
<guilabel>Monochrome</guilabel>, <guilabel> Grayscale</guilabel> or
<guilabel>Color</guilabel> <guilabel>Palette</guilabel> for the display.
</para>

<para>
Once the contents of a document page have been rendered by
<application>Ghostscript</application> they need to be saved somewhere
for the viewer's use. You can choose for this to be done as a
<guilabel>Pixmap</guilabel> image in memory or in a <guilabel>Backing
store</guilabel>. Depending on your X server one method may be faster
than the other, but note that some X servers do not work with the
<guilabel>Backing store</guilabel> option.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ghostscript-config">
<title><application>Ghostscript</application> configuration</title>

<para>
In this dialog box page you can set the name of the
<application>Ghostscript</application> <guilabel>Interpreter</guilabel>
executable and the <guilabel>Non-antialiasing arguments</guilabel> and
the <guilabel>Antialiasing arguments</guilabel> passed to it. The
default settings should be suitable for most systems.
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kghostview;
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<title>Program Copyright:</title>
<listitem><para>Mark Donohoe (original author) 1998
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>David Sweet <email>dsweet@kde.org</email> 
Maintainer 1999-2000
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Wilco Greven <email>greven@kde.org</email> 
Current maintainer 2000-2001
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>


<itemizedlist>
<title>Contributors</title>
<listitem><para>David Faure (basis for shell)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>Daniel Duley (port to Kparts)</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para>Espen Sand (dialog boxes)</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Documentation copyright 2001 Pamela Roberts
<email>pam.roberts@btinternet.com</email>
</para>


<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->

&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->


</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<para>
&kghostview; is part of the &kde; 2 project, details of which can be found at
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org"> http://www.kde.org</ulink>.
</para>

<para>
To use &kghostview;, you must have the <application>Ghostscript</application>
program as well as &kde; 2 installed on your machine. The
<application>Ghostscript</application> home page is at
<ulink url="http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/">
http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/</ulink></para>

<para>
Most distributions will include &kghostview;, but if you want to roll your own
the source code can be found in the Kdegraphics package on <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, the main
ftp site of the KDE project. </para>

<para>
To see if a later version of &kghostview; has been released, you can
take a look in <ulink
url="http://apps.kde.com">http://apps.kde.com</ulink>. </para>

<para>
To compile and install &kghostview; on your system, as root type the
following in the directory where you saved the &kghostview; source code:
</para>

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>./configure</command></userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command></userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>make</command> <option>install</option></userinput>
</screen>

<para>
Since &kghostview; uses <command>autoconf</command> and
<command>automake</command> you should not have any trouble compiling
it. But if you do run into problems please report them to the &kde;
mailing lists.
</para>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

